- [Instructor] In this lesson, I'll share a simple plan
you can follow when migrating complex systems
to new versions of Java.
These simple steps will help you navigate the migration
and increase your chances of success.
In general, this strategy aims to identify
the components you are migrating,
do some quick planning and preparation around them,
and then execute their migration.
Let's dive a little bit deeper into each one of these steps.
When performing a migration,
you should first assess each system component to determine
what version of Java it's using, how important it is,
and if it is still being used?
In complex systems,
you may discover that some components are no longer used
and do not require migration.
Others may be using various versions of Java.
Basically, we're building a list
of what needs to be migrated.
It can also be helpful to note where the application runs.
When assessing each component,
you should note any integrations with other systems
and the technologies they use to interface.
You should also take note of any internal
or third party libraries being used
for each system component.
This information can help you determine the order
of your migration and the extent of testing that's required.
Next, you should build a plan that outlines the schedule
and the details of the migration work.
It doesn't need to be complex,
but a little organization can go a long way.
First, identify what version of Java you will migrate to
and who will provide your JDK.
Most enterprises are going to target an LTS release of Java,
which is currently Java 11.
If there are multiple system components,
it is important to schedule the order they must be migrated.
The order in which you migrate can be used to reduce
the risk of the overall migration.
By migrating smaller and less significant parts
of the system first, you can approach the migration
of critical features with more confidence in experience.
If you're working with a complex system,
the assessment and plan will be very important.
However, for smaller systems,
these steps may not be as critical.
After determining your target Java version,
the JDK must be installed on environments where you build
and run your application.
In this step, you may need to upgrade
your development tools to those compatible
with your selected JDK.
This will require installations and configuration
on developer workstations,
build servers and your runtime environments.
Once your environments and tools are set up,
you can begin converting the application
to your target Java version.
In some cases, you may find it as only necessary
to compile and run the application
because there are no migration issues.
If you're not that lucky, you will need to do some analysis
with the help of some scanning tools
to identify the issues that need resolved.
These issues may exist not only in your source code,
but in the source code of the third party libraries
used by your application.
After resolving these issues,
you'll want to do an extensive amount of testing
on your application, hopefully through automated testing.
If your application integrates with other systems,
it is important to test those interfaces
to ensure they remain intact after the migration.
After the application has been migrated,
you'll need to release the changes into production
where you will want to carefully monitor it
for a period of time paying close attention
to resource usage and the system logs.
Once you're satisfied with the migration,
you can then begin to remove the old Java version
and toll set from your environments.
If you adhere to this lightweight plan,
while performing a Java migration,
you'll navigate some of the most common pitfalls encountered
during Java migrations.